{"index":-1,"title":"Blame!","format":"ONA","review":"\tIf you search online for anime, you sometimes wander and find strange things you have never heard of or seen before. Sometimes you make a blind purchase, either enjoy or dislike the anime, and move on. Blame! is different however... despite all the anime that I've seen and understood in the past, this one baffles me like nothing else ever has.\nMost of the story I had to get from the back of the DVD case and online. Set sometime in the far future, robotic beings are destroying all living/human beings for their own survival. \tThere are two human-like robotic  characters that dream of escaping the techno-cyperpunk world they live in underground. I might be making this up, I'm not sure. The movie is composed of six shorts about five minutes long (plus a seventh epilogue episode). There is very little dialogue, only backgrounds, characters standing and fighting, and other strange imagery. Whenever there is dialogue, you hang on to every word hoping to figure something out, and the sixth and seventh episodes come close to explaining something, but it still feels lacking. It doesn't help that about ten of the forty minute film is of credits and text.\n\tBasically, the story is either non-existent or terribly told, but that might just be a viewer's perspective. The product here isn't the film, but the disc itself. You see, the series is actually based on a manga, and the DVD is sold as a \"salvaged disc\" of data meant to contain clues to salvation from the robotic beings. The menu system is a green and black menu of alien text, complete with loading and error animations. Putting this disk in your player makes you feel like you've uncovered something from another world, and that you are seeing things that you were possibly not meant to see. The scenes may depict either the birth, occurrence or aftermath of the destruction of mankind. You have to decipher the clues. It makes you work to figure out what's going on. It's incredibly immersive, even though I almost guarantee that you won't figure out what any of it means without reading the manga first.\n\tThe visuals are stylized, but also somewhat crude. Animation is limited, but there are some nice effects with 3D backgrounds and 2D characters. Overall, the imagery is certainly interesting, and is more a plus than a minus. The music is especially effective and atmospheric, with ending credits featuring punk rock scores. There is no dub, and what little there is of spoken Japanese seems well spoken to match the character personalities, which is to say they sound robotic. In addition to all the strangeness of the disc itself, the box also came with a nice t-shirt and a separate DVD containing trailers and preview episodes from AnimeWorks and MediaBlasters. And all of it was pretty cheap too! \n\tI guess this is what you'd call the ultimate example of experimental art. For what you get and for the cheap price you can get it at today (it is technically out of print, so if you find it for a good price, don't hesitate), I'd recommend this to everybody. But you will almost certainly hate the film, even if you love the existence of the DVD. \n\tAnd if you are curious, the manga has a second life: a lesser known animated adaption called \"Blame! Prologue\" was released in 2007 as a two-episode extension (also only four-minutes long each) by Production I.G., and a Netflix-exclusive feature film CGI adaptation was released in 2017 by Polygon Pictures. With this much content, if you like science fiction you will want to seek out this original OVA for the historic value alone.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":2.5,"scoreAni":2.0,"scoreVisual":2.5,"scoreAudio":3.5,"scoreAct":2.0,"scoreStory":1.5,"scoreFun":2.0,"scoreBias":4.0,"action":true,"adventure":false,"philosophy":true,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":true,"fantasy":false,"scifi":true,"drama":false,"mystery":true,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":42.0,"year":2003,"country":"Japan","studio":"Group TAC","director":"Shintaro Inokawa"}