{"index":-1,"title":"Chico and Rita","format":"Film","review":"\tLatin-Americans are a huge community that doesn't always get its due. Take films for example: how many Spanish films have you seen? Not being Spanish, I don't think I've seen any, which is a real shame. This changed when I saw one Spanish film that just happens to be animated, an academy award nominee, and thankfully it was released for us to watch on Bluray and DVD. It is called \"Chico and Rita,\" and it leaves an interesting impression. \n\t\"Chico and Rita\" tells the love story and musical careers of two artists: Chico, and up and coming piano player and song writer, and Rita, and beautiful singer with a golden voice. Chico, now an old man living alone in Havana, thinks back to these old memories through long flashbacks. Chico fell immediately in love with Rita when he first heard her voice, and while Rita wasn't interested at first, she eventually turned around. Their relationship went through many hurdles however, from other men and women, and advances in their separate careers. It makes for a stunning and emotional love story, and a few scenes will likely bring a glow to your heart. Both Chico and Rita (especially Rita) have true feelings that you can understand. Rarely does a love story feel as powerful as this. Also, sex scenes (that's not easy to find in an animated film)! \n\tIt isn't just about love, however. Music is a huge theme, and this film is full of it. Both the main characters and some real famous musicians perform during the movie, showcasing the best of Jazz from the mid 1900's. It also shows the career life of these people, both the high and low points. Friendship and backstabbing, drugs and alcohol, all of which affects Chico and Rita's relationship. There's also a theme about skin-color, a real issue during the time this film is set. Being of darker color meant discrimination, despite any talent and fame you may have had, and that is used expertly without over-exerting itself in the script. All of it together gives the film a historical feel, not unlike films like Forest Gump. \n\tIf I had a problem with any of the characters or the story, it was with Chico. Honestly, he comes across as a jerk, making some really stupid decisions during the course of the movie. He has relationships with multiple women at once, gets jealous at other men, comes to conclusions too quickly, and so on. It would have been nice to have seen the leading man be a little more caring, because it makes it harder to believe that Rita would have any feeling for him (speaking of which, Rita is both loyal and firm about her feelings, making her much more understandable and likeable as a character). Chico does admit regrets about how he acts, and he seemingly learns by the end of the film (being alone in old age), but it was still a thorn in my side. Rita, you deserve better. \n\tIf you don't like Latin-music, then at least watch this for the visuals. The animation is luscious, mimicking a unique colorful style that you might see on walls or murals. It's well animated too, and I applaud new styles like this being done in the realm of traditional animation. Computer modeling is also used throughout the film, usually to great effect when used with buildings and cars. Occasionally, characters are also computer animated, and this is more noticeable to the detriment of the visuals. But by outlining characters with hard edges, and limiting 3d animation on characters in the far distance, I have to admit I am impressed with how well the styles merge. Music being a high point, it is done with care. The home-video release has no English-dub, only the original Spanish with English-subtitles, which adds to the film to make it more authentic. Supposedly, a English-dub was in production, but Wikipedia has been wrong before. \n\tA true love letter to music, romance, and the Latin-American dream, \"Chico and Rita\" is a mature film you shouldn't miss. If you have a passion for any of these things, it is worth a purchase. Most problems with the film can be looked over, and you will be left day-dreaming about those romantic Havana-nights of yester-year. See it before it passes you by.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.569999933242798,"scoreAni":4.0,"scoreVisual":4.0,"scoreAudio":4.5,"scoreAct":3.5,"scoreStory":3.0,"scoreFun":3.0,"scoreBias":3.0,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":false,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":true,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":true,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":97.0,"year":2010,"country":"Spain","studio":"Fernando Truba PC","director":"Fernando Trueba"}