{"index":-1,"title":"The Illusionist","format":"Film","review":"\tThe name \"Sylvain Chomet\" should be well-known by most cartoon fans. Best known for the feature film \"The Triplets of Belleville,\" he has become the bad boy of animation, even animating a guest opening for \"The Simpsons\" to expand his reach. One would think \"The Triplets\" would be his best film, as it is certainly the most well-known. But personally, I think his follow-up (2010's \"The Illusionist\") is a stronger feature, and it holds a dear place in my heart... at the time of this writing, these are the only two features Chomet has ever made, so there aren't much else to compare it to.\n\tWhile \"Triplets\" is raunchy, heavily stylized and primarily funny, \"The Illusionist\" is a much more quiet and poetic look at life. In a romanticized era of the late 1950's, an old illusionist struggles to find work in Europe as a traveling magician. The crowds in theaters have diminished, and trends cater more to rock-and-roll and the movies. One Socttish man is impressed with his act, and hires him to come to Scotland to perform in a local bar. During this time, the Illusionist meets a young woman who works there, herself captivated by his magic, believing them to be more than simply tricks. Out of kindness, or perhaps a fatherly love, the Illusionist makes a variety of small gifts appear for her, and helps cheer up some of the other neighbors of his temporary home. But as the film progresses, the girl takes the gifts for granted, and it becomes difficult for the Illusionist to continue affording the humble things, eventually finding his opportunity to leave when the girl finds affection in another man.\n\tThe movie script was (sort of) written by the late Jacques Tati, a famous French director whose name I recognize but whose work I've never seen. He never finished this movie, which was thought to have complicated ties to his real family. Reading the synopsis, one might think this is a a impure romantic relationship between an older man and a teenager, but it doesn't come off like that. It feels much more like a relationship between a father and a daughter (a line the promotional materials used), with the father trying to encourage the daughter's belief in magic for as long as he can, until he simply can't anymore, or until he is certain she will be fine knowing the truth. Taken in this manner, it's an excellent story, albiet one that isn't exciting or easy to enjoy by the average audience. \n\tAdmittedly, this is a slow movie. There are moments of comedy, but even then, with a background of sadness: one scene involves a man interrupted from committing suicide to have a bowl of soup prepared by the Illusionist and the girl. This type of melancholy magic and wonder occurs throughout the film. It's a special thing that I enjoyed watching, even it it isn't easy to make anyone else excited to see it.\n\tVisually, the design isn't as stylized or memorable as \"Triplets,\" but is beautifully detailed in its painterly backgrounds, and is animated with a similar attention to detail. Much like the story, there is a beauty here that showcases how animation can be art. The detail makes watching the film on Bluray a much better experience than DVD, by the way. There isn't much dialogue, but what is present is well acted, if not in dialogue then in mannerisms of the on-screen characters. The music is also very beautiful; all together, it creates an atmosphere that makes me long for a simpler time, even though I never lived through this period.\n\tSylvain Chomet is a treasure to the animation world, and I sincerely hope we get at least one or two more out of him before he's done. His production schedules have become infamous, with several years in between each project. But even if \"The Illusionist\" were to turn out to be his last work, I would be content with that. It's an appopriate masterpiece to end any legacy with.  \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":4.139999866485596,"scoreAni":5.0,"scoreVisual":4.5,"scoreAudio":3.5,"scoreAct":3.0,"scoreStory":5.0,"scoreFun":3.0,"scoreBias":5.0,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":true,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":true,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":true,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":79.0,"year":2010,"country":"French","studio":"Pathe","director":"Sylvain Chomet"}