{"index":-1,"title":"Cat Planet Cuties","format":"TV","review":"\t\"Cat Planet Cuties\" is a show about an alien that comes to Earth. She's a friendly alien, who is perfectly humanoid except for ears, tail, and personality that is distinctly like Earth cats. She has come on a relations mission from her planet (also named Earth, but to avoid confusion, she calls it \"Catia\" for the rest of the show), to be friends with Earth. She also has a beautiful body, no sense of modesty, and bunks with a kind-natured Earth boy named Kyo as she learns about the human race. If that's not enough, Kyo's female friends also happen to be a CIA trainee, a spy with secret powers, and a member of a terrorist organization, all of whom have reasons to eliminate the new alien. \n\tBy all accounts, \"Cat Planet Cuties\" (for which the English title coined by American distributor Funimation to better sell without the confusing Japanese original title) shouldn't exist. It certainly shouldn't exist as a full-length season of anime. You get the sense the creators thought that too: the first two episodes don't have openings and feel stand-alone, as if this was meant to be a fun side-OVA of two episodes. But apparently, the popularity of it was enough to extend the show to 12 episodes. In those new episodes, Kyo's friends have already resolved to helping him defend their alien, and a fleet of alien cats (all female, because apparently male cats don't like politics) come to further extend relations with the Japanese government, while a new antagonist in a secret underground group of alien dogs fight to defend their territory.\n\tCertainly, a short OVA would have made sense. Who would really want to watch such a cliche story with such cliche characters for a full tv season? The aliens look like they were designed by a 14 year-old otaku boy, and the inexplicable feats of action Kyo's same-aged neighbor and class friend can pull off are nothing short of unbelievable.  It's very hard to take seriously. \n\tBut the thing is, the creators know it's hard to take seriously. And they ran with that. And so the show is full of clever references to sci-fi, action, anime, romance, and other common media otaku might be familiar with. And so the characters constantly complain about how unrealistic the story or cat-aliens are. Yes, being a harem show, we get plenty of sexy moments too, some of which are dispersed in great actions scenes and great visual gags. Speaking of which, the harem love-square actually ends well for everyone, simply by our cat-girl saying that having multiple mating partners is perfectly common and acceptable on her planet. And the two Earth girls actually fall for it! Kyo, you lucky dog... And I didn't mention the adorable cat-robot-servants, complete with costumes and the most adorable way of speaking, ideal for marketing and merchandising (although that level of success never seemed to catch on for the series). \n\tThe production values are also better than normal. Not incredible, but certainly pleasing to the eye, considering that it came from a relatively unknown anime company (Studio AIC isn't talked about often, altough they do have a large catelog of titles that anime fans will at least have heard of in passing). Music is light-hearted and upbeat, as expected. The English dub cast clearly had a lot of fun, some jokes being rewritten for the English version. \n\tOverall, \"Cat Planet Cuties\" is way better than it has any right to be. It's genuinely funny, arguably funnier than most comedy anime. The actions scenes aren't as strong as the best anime of that genre, but it is a decent attempt. And the harem aspects are \"purr-fect.\" Yes, that harem aspect overshadows most of it, but if you are in the market for that type of show, this will impress you. \n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.430000066757202,"scoreAni":3.0,"scoreVisual":3.5,"scoreAudio":3.5,"scoreAct":3.5,"scoreStory":2.5,"scoreFun":4.0,"scoreBias":4.0,"action":true,"adventure":false,"philosophy":false,"comedy":true,"erotic":true,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":true,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":true,"drama":false,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":true,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":325.0,"year":2010,"country":"Japan","studio":"AIC","director":"Youichi Ueda"}