{"index":-1,"title":"Thumbelina","format":"Film","review":" \tDisney never did make a film about the classic fairy tail \"Thumbelina.\" That's probably why I had no idea what the story was about, other than the main character being no bigger than a thumb. That's why this film was a delightful surprise, and I'd argue that it's one of the best Don Bluth has made.\n\tLittle Thumbelina was born as a young teenager out of a magic flower when a sweet old lady who couldn't have children of her own wished for her. While both lived very happily together on a small farm with a variety of animals, it was clear that Thumbelina's size made life difficult for her, and she longed for someone her size that could relate. By chance, a fairy prince hears her singing one day and proposes to marry her (not directly, but their adorable mutual love for each other was obviously implied). However, other animals in the forest outside also heard her lovely voice, and a frog steals her away that night. This leads to an adventure to get back home so the fairy prince to find her again, on the way getting proposals from a number of strange and undesirable animals, all the while wondering if she should just settle down and agree to wed one of these characters.\n\tThat's basically the theme of the movie: if you love someone and they love you, never settle for less. It's a strange moral that can easily be misinterpreted, and seems a bit backwards to young girls, but let's be honest: finding someone you love who loves you is a fantasy that both boys and girls wish for one day. Yes, you can argue that the treatment of Thumbelina as a character is a perfect example of misogyny (Don Bluth's films in general were subject to this in hindsight, also the original fairy tale isn't much better regardless), but you could also say she is a independent woman who knows what she wants and when to say 'no,' all in a manner that is much less in your face than most other films that actively try not to be. Certain characters, like the Italian Toads and the New-York Beetle are memorable in voice and in character design, and voice work overall is good. The movie does well to make you root for the fated couple to get married, and along the way a couple twists make you actually wonder if certain characters would die off or if there would be a happy ending. Overall, the plot is well executed, and a delight for someone who revels in this type of animation and fairy tale.\n\tThe visuals look great, like a classic Disney film from 50 years ago. Strange, since the film was actually released a bit more recently (in 1994), but I didn't mind. Characters are well designed and memorable, and music is both classic and modern in the way Disney films were around that time. Music and songs are good, at least comparable to what Disney put out in that era.\n\tAccording to Wikipedia, the film got terrible reviews. It's a shame, because I believe even Disney couldn' t have done better, and these types of films just aren't made anymore. It brings back nostalgia even if had never seen it before, like watching a Disney movie you never knew existed for the first time. A delight all around, Don Bluth should be proud.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.7899999618530275,"scoreAni":4.0,"scoreVisual":4.0,"scoreAudio":4.0,"scoreAct":4.0,"scoreStory":3.5,"scoreFun":4.0,"scoreBias":3.0,"action":false,"adventure":true,"philosophy":false,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":true,"romance":true,"experimental":false,"fantasy":true,"scifi":false,"drama":false,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":true,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":86.0,"year":1994,"country":"USA","studio":"Don Bluth Productions","director":"Don Bluth, Gary Goldman"}