{"index":-1,"title":"Persona 3 The Movie - Spring of Birth, Midsummer Knight's Dream, Falling Down, Winter of Rebirth","format":"Film","review":"\tI admit that my exposure to the \"Persona 3\" game and its franchise is limited, and mostly enveloped in juvenile longing and nostalgia. I remember buying a copy of a gaming magazine in 2006 (at a time when a dozen such magazines existed in any bookstore, today none of which remain), and seeing a glowing review of a niche JRPG, praised for its social-simulation, dungeon crawling, anime-stylized visuals and storyline, complete with beautiful concept art from Shigenori Soejima to sell the idea, with a modern J-Pop rap-infused soundtrack to boot. But the selling point was that style and tone it captured: the review gleefully described the idea how the main character, a student, would commit suicide by shooting himself in the head with a gun-like device to summon a inner demon to fight in each battle. The cut scene where this first occurs portrays this moment in darkness, with gun-flash and glowing protagonist eyes and wistful smile highlighting the silhouette as the trigger is pulled.\n\tBeing a young teenager at the time, this angst-filled image captured my imagination, and clearly that of that generation of gamers, as Persona 4 would be released only a few years later, despite the time gap between Persona 2 and 3 being much larger. This and a slew of other spin-offs in gaming, manga, anime and more would catapult the development team and its franchise, such that to declare it as niche felt invalid - it was every bit an important title a Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest.\n\tDespite this exposure and awareness, I did not own a PS2, and I would never have to opportunity to play a Persona game until iteration 5 was released in 2017. But as the style and tone changed between each game, I kept remembering Persona 3 for that blue-color palette and the image of a gun to the hero's head being a every-day part of the story. So when it was announced that a four-part film series based on Persona 3 would be released, I felt it the opportune time to finally experience what \"Persona 3\" was all about. \n\tUltimately, I was disappointed, and not only because the only way to experience the films was through a premium subtitled-only release that cost more than double any standard film, which added up to collect all four. I think the main reason I was disappointed was in its slow pacing. Many would argue that to adapt a 40-plus hour-long JRPG in a single movie or short television series would be foolish, and so this film takes its time to introduce every character in detail, to give what I assume is the full back-story and story developments afforded by the many hours of cut scenes in the original game. This pace isn't really too slow - in fact, it feels deliberately well-tuned - but the story that occurs over these six hours doesn't justify the length. Too often I kept waiting with my arms crossed for something to HAPPEN, as the characters fought off countless monsters of seemingly no importance and took time off for no particular meaning. In a lengthy game, where to countdown the boss battles until you reach the end, only to realize you haven't reached the half-way point of the story, there is some excitement to see your adventure continue. But to simply watch someone else's adventure continue doesn't have the same feeling, and as such, I found myself bored with the experience. \n\tLike most series made of three or four movies, there are highs and lows in the story arc. The first movie, Spring of Birth, is a competent introduction to the world and its initial characters. The second movie, A Midsummer Knight's Dream, feels like the standout of the movie, being genuinely fun at times thanks to some well-written comedy between the characters. In the third and fourth films (Falling Down and Winter of Rebirth), the story takes a turn towards depression and doubt in the characters, making the second half of this series feel more a slog than necessary. In these two films, the majority of time is spent to show every character in confusion and angst, far more time than was necessary. The final ending doesn't have the emotional punch I hoped it would, giving the entire saga the weight of a standard year of high-school, when it could and should have strived for more. To say it was dull or boring isn't inclusive of all game adaptation either: one only needs to look at the Persona 4 television series to see a better example. Indeed it is by default a more fun atmosphere, but that small change and more personable characters does a world of difference in watch-ability. And despite being longer overall than the film series, it still feels like a breeze in comparison. As such, I can't help but recommend that wholeheartedly over the film series of Persona 3.\n\tSoejima's character designs are much stronger in concept art with painted colors and scratchy outlines than they are animated. The way the faces are rounded and their eyes appear look less inviting than most anime I watch, and detail in character animation isn't much stronger than standard television quality. The creature designs, mostly carried from the games, are at least interesting, but the action scenes again don't rival better examples in animation. The highlight of the series then is the background art and music: the backgrounds are incredibly beautiful in their design, and many shots of gothic night skies are worthy of framing. The music is of the same vein of the games, which is to say it is nearly perfect, vocal tracks and instrumental piano and string melodies doing their job to give importance to a scene, and making the soundtrack CD's for these films perhaps worth more than the films themselves.\n\tThe story follows this group of students as they discover powers to summon \"persona\" creatures to fight for them in battle against demons in the invisible \"midnight\" hour of their town. There are mysteries to unfold about the powers and why there are monsters about, but again, the answers don't justify the runtime.  This is a character study first, and like most RPGs you are meant to fall in love with the cast as if they were long lost friends you used to hang out with. That emotional connection is limited, and suspect much stronger had the viewer played the original games. But then such viewer would know the story - would it be worth watching these four films? Perhaps not, but then I do feel the films are complete enough that there is no particular reason to ever seek out the game.\n\t(Of the four films, I found the second to be the most entertaining, as to match traditional Japanese format of four-part stories, it featured the most comedic moments while appropriately uping the story: I gave it approximately a 2.5/5 rating. I gave the fourth film the lowest score at 1.5/5, for dragging too long and not delivering a payoff worthy of a four-part film series.)\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":2.0,"scoreAni":2.0,"scoreVisual":3.0,"scoreAudio":5.0,"scoreAct":1.0,"scoreStory":1.0,"scoreFun":1.0,"scoreBias":1.0,"action":true,"adventure":true,"philosophy":false,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":true,"scifi":false,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":true,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":376.0,"year":2013,"country":"Japan","studio":"A-1 Pictures","director":"Noriaki Akitaya, Tomohisa Taguchi, Keitaro Motonaga"}