{"index":-1,"title":"Jin-Roh - The Wolf Brigade","format":"Film","review":"\t\"Jin-Roh - The Wolf Brigade\" is a classic 1999 anime film. A lesser known one, yes, but it deserves a place alongside \"Ghost in the Shell\" and \"Akira.\" When watching the movie, \"Ghost in the Shell\" in particular should come to mind: both were animated by Production I.G, and both involve the auteur director Mamoru Oshii. Oshii technically didn't direct this one, only serving as writer, while Hiroyuki Okiura served directing duties. But from the dense politically-charged story and light futuristic elements, this is clearly an Oshii film through and through, very similar in tone to \"Ghost in the Shell,\" \"Patlabor 2\" and \"The Sky Crawlers.\" \n\tThe story is set in an alternate near future. Following the events of a world war, Japan's government aims to grow back its country through economy, but as time goes on, some citizens grow poor, forgotten as the country moves forward. This leads to rebellion, terrorism and protest. An army squad, recognized by their iconic metal suits and helmets, are tasked to keep the peace. The movie follows one particular soldier, named Kazuki, and his story dealing with a young female terrorist. The fable of \"Little Red Riding Hood\" and the wolf (and the darker version of the story at that) is used as a metaphor, and while its tie to the story is loose at best, it sets a haunting tone effectively. \n\tIt is admittedly a good story, impressively mature, of political intrigue and of twists within a government organization, and with a memorable and haunting ending. But unsurprisingly (given Oshii is involved), the film is incredibly slow and dense. Unlike most of his movies, there isn't a strong plot device or visual to hang on to. \"Ghost in the Shell\" had cyborgs. \"The Sky Crawlers\" had immortal children war pilots. Aside from the poster key visual of a soldier's silhouette, and the ending it leaves you with, the film's setting is too easily forgettable, even minutes after watching it.\n\tIt's a shame, since the production values are excellent. holding up well even decades later. Characters are grounded in reality in their design, almost like they were rotoscoped, both when still and when they move, fluidly and realistically animated. The world is detailed, tangible, as if it really existed. The movie could have been shot in live-action instead of animation, and unless you have major predujice against the medium, you would feel the animation captures everything a live-action film would have provided. The music is subtle, but beautiful, with the type of sweeping scores that recall classic films from the 80's and 90's, far more nuanced than scores most anime receive today. Only the English dub falters a bit, and only because of how dense and relatively unexciting the dialogue is. \n\t\"Jin-Roh - The Wolf Brigade\" isn't for everyone. It's the type of drama I would recommend to fans of BBC or army stories. That any anime could be compared to such an archtypal genre, considered one of the most well-respected around the world, is a high complement. It's absolutely worth seeing at least once. Curiously, it would receive a live-action adaptation many years later, not from Japan or America, but from Korea. It makes me proud that it still receives respect from a cult following.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.640000104904175,"scoreAni":4.0,"scoreVisual":4.0,"scoreAudio":4.0,"scoreAct":3.5,"scoreStory":4.0,"scoreFun":2.5,"scoreBias":4.0,"action":true,"adventure":false,"philosophy":true,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":102.0,"year":1999,"country":"Japan","studio":"Production I.G.","director":"Hiroyuki Okiura"}