{"index":-1,"title":"Croisee in a Foreign Labyrinth","format":"TV","review":"\t\"Croisee in a Foreign Labyrinth\" is a lovely little show. It's a bit unusual for a Japanese anime, as it is set entirely in Paris, France during the 1800's. The story revolves around a sweet young woman from Japan, eager to learn from the local shopkeepers as an apprentice. The entire experience is more of a cultural adventure, learning both the livestyles of the French and how they differ from the ways of the Japanese. The easy-going nature of the subject is part of its charm, and understandably, the show has its fans both in France and in Japan.\n\tThe cultural aspect is where the show shines, although it falters in a few ways. Not unlike \"Gankutsuou - The Count of Monte Cristo\" (but much less intense), it captures the essence of France wonderfully, opening with a French narration at the beginning of each episode (strangely, with no English dub, all the characters speak perfect Japanese, even though they are supposed to be speaking French and state as such). The show takes place almost entirely in a detailed and intimate corner of the city, around an aging gallery (old-fashioned outdoor mall) of shopkeepers trying to survive as the world advances around them. I've never stepped foot in France, but the show makes me feel like I have. As for the Japanese culture clash, it also feels accurate relative to the flashy and commercialized versions in modern media. Both sides educate each other in the lifestyles, from food and clothing, to manners and beliefs. Yes, the \tshow is actually quite educational in a delightful way, like an entertaining PBS daytime show.\n\tBut is there a story? The name of the Japanese girl is Yune (\"Croisee\" in the title actually refers to the French word for \"crossing\" or \"crossroads\"), and despite her age, looks and acts like a immensely cute young girl at about one-half the height of her French counterparts. She is earnest and hardworking, with a pride to contribute and be kind to others. This clashes with her mentor Claude, a young metal worker struggling to make ends meet in his late-father's shop. Tasked as a mentor after his grandfather brought Yune back with him from a traveling adventure, he is more practical after years of working in the lower class of Paris. Claude looks with disdain at the new modern shopping centre across the block that threatens to take away business from the entire gallery, contempt at the rich bourgeoisie (one of whom has great fascination of Yune's culture and knows her father plans to buy and give her the entire old gallery in the future), and distrust at the lower class beggars that would steal his goods for a loaf of bread. Even though he means well, this view of the world goes against Yune's perspective to always be kind and friendly to everyone. While Yune's ideals seem clearly the right one, they make things difficult in practice for her to fit in with France's offputting characters. Ultimately, both have to learn from each other, both culturally and in their work relationship. \n\tThere are hints of larger character backstories for both characters, with Yune having a loving sister back in Japan, and Claude having a old friendship with a woman in the upper class, separated by status. These are nice elements that provide extra dimension to what is otherwise a generally lighthearted series of days. Much of the time is spent with sweet little moments of learning, often highlighted by Yune's chibi-reactions to either show shock or delight. It's strange to see Yune as being SO small compared to other humans, but she's just so darn cute that the proportion issue can be seen as a plus.\n\tBut I still wouldn't call \"Croisee in a Foreign Labyrinth\" essential viewing. It doesn't have the wonder of a larger story like \"Mushishi\" or \"Kino's Journey,\" and that lack of danger or mystery makes it easy to fall asleep to an episode on a Sunday afternoon. The cultural aspect makes it stand out against others in its genre of laidback anime, but it doesn't strive for high-level art or writing to make me eagerly watch the next episode. And the anime has not aged well... it was made in 2011?? It looks like it was made in 2001! Despite the backgrounds in the detail, the characters themselves are comparatively simplistic, and the flat animation and muted, realistic colors don't do it any favors. The music is a touch better, but also not as memorable as the show seems to think it is. If higher production values were put into the animation and music, if greater emphasis was placed on emotional payoff, then the show would mean a lot more to me.\n\tBut these are nitpicks in a solid and well-meaning show that you could show to anyone of any age. \"Croisee in a Foreign Labyrinth\" is not a gleaming diamond in the rough, but a impressive copper art piece that is easy to appreciate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.140000104904175,"scoreAni":2.5,"scoreVisual":3.5,"scoreAudio":3.5,"scoreAct":2.5,"scoreStory":3.0,"scoreFun":3.0,"scoreBias":4.0,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":true,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":true,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":325.0,"year":2011,"country":"Japan","studio":"Satelight","director":"Kenji Yasuda"}