{"index":-1,"title":"The Fantastic Adventures of Unico","format":"Film","review":"\tLike America, Japan has many iconic cartoon characters. In fact, almost all countries do, but English audiences rarely hear of them. Unico is a magical baby unicorn created by none other than the creator of Astro Boy, the master Osamu Tezuka. He's a delightfully cute character and the films are meant for young audiences. Unico's first film, \"The Fantastic Adventures of Unico,\" is no exception. Expecting any more than that might leave you disappointed. \n\tThis serves as a introduction to Unico. When born, he was so cute and lovable that he ended wars, and brought peace and happiness to the human race. The many Gods watching over the Earth (a strange mix of Christian and Greek methodology in cartoonish form) are not satisfied that they don't have full control over the happiness of the human race, and sentence Unico to be banished to the ends of the world where no other living creature would ever see him. The West Winds, tasked with carrying Unico away from his family, takes pity on the baby unicorn, and instead banishes him to a slightly different land where no other living creature would ever see him. Because that's much better. \n\tBut living creatures do somehow find him. And Unico ends up making everyone around him happy, one way or another. Thus causing the Gods to notice his presence yet again, and causing the West Winds to again whisk him away from his new friends to yet another place. This is where the beauty of the legend comes in. Unico is fated to never make long term friends, for every time he makes a friend, he will soon have to say goodbye forever. And yet, that is who he is, he cannot control himself for being too kind, too cute, too loveable. Modern anime writers would find much in this premise. \n\tBut this was made in the 1980s, a time not well known for top anime writers. Especially for films targeted directly at children. The film feels like a mess of a fairy tale. Poor Unico is every bit as lovable as he is supposed to be, and it's heartbreaking to see him cry purely for being \"lonesome,\" and joyous when he hears someone's voice and realizes that he's not alone. This film sees him visit only two lands (a strange number), the first befriending a strange devil creature that is also cute but generally unpleasant (and becomes friends despite Unico killing his stone father), and a talking cat who wishes to be human, who later gets tricked by a evil forest creature that takes the form of a charming prince. Brave Unico befriends all, can transform into a flying stallion when near people \"who love him,\" and can even use his horn in swordfights! Yes, this film has it all, and feels like a strange but effective way to market Unico dolls. \n\tThe production was produced by the Sanrio company, but animated by Madhouse, an animation studio that would be better known decades later for anime catered to a more adult audience. Animation and visuals are barely passable for its time, similar to what other fairy tale adaptations looked like from Japan around that decade. That is, cute, but hardly worth mentioning, especially when a handful of other films around the same time look much better. Character designs are well designed for their purpose: the \"Winds\" in particular look well-designed, possibly inspiring a certain Fantasia 2000 short. Music fits the tone, and the English songs are surprisingly decent. The English dub is bad, but I can't imagine a different dub.\n\tI certainly don't like the film critically. Yet, by the time the ending rolls around and the characters realize Unico has to say goodbye yet again, I feel sorry to see it end. This is a good introduction to Unico, and most children would fall in love with the cute little guy. But I would love to see a reboot, maybe written by a more modern writer, like Gen Urobuchi. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":2.2100000381469728,"scoreAni":2.0,"scoreVisual":2.5,"scoreAudio":3.5,"scoreAct":1.5,"scoreStory":2.0,"scoreFun":2.0,"scoreBias":2.0,"action":false,"adventure":true,"philosophy":false,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":true,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":false,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":90.0,"year":1981,"country":"Japan","studio":"Sanrio","director":"Toshio Hirata"}