{"index":-1,"title":"Ground Control to Psychoelectric Girl","format":"TV","review":"\tI assumed I would never see another anime similar to \"Bakemonogatari\" when I got around to watching it circa 2012. It was just too unique and unusual. But \"Ground Control to Psychoelectric Girl\" happens to be by the same animation studio and the same director (sort-of... online sources are inconsistant as to whether Akiyuki Shinbo really had a role in directing the television series here, or if Yukihiro Miyamoto did the work). And sure enough, many of the writing and fanservice quirks from Bakemonogatari appear in Ground Control, but in a more reserved environment within a slice-of-life genre. The result feels like a mix of \"Bakemonogatari\" and \"Welcome to the NHK,\" and in some ways comes out better than both of them, or at least more accessible while keeping elements that made those shows good. Despite this claim, it's a shame it ultimately comes across as more forgettable than it ought to compared to said staples of anime history.\n\tThe blue-haired girl on the promotional art is a self-proclaimed alien. Our main character is a out of town transfer student who happens to be her older cousin, despite not knowing until now that his aunt ever had a daughter. Concerned and annoyed about his little cousin's behavior, rationalized as being caused by her amnesia and disappearance for several months years prior, he tries to prove to her that she is a normal human girl and bring her back to the real world. \n\tFunny, the show resolves this main plot of adapting a NEET to society within a few episodes, leaving the rest to become a slice-of-life/romantic-comedy. There are a handful of other girls that our main character befriends at his school, leading to a potential romantic triangle, or if you include the little cousin and older aunt, a five-way. The fanservice scenes with the other characters are limited and restrained, although the aunt plays her role as a lonely, flirtatious woman afraid of age by teasing her nephew with a fake auntie-fetish, which will satisfy anyone looking for that type of thing (or potentially disgust others, but again this isn't overplayed as much as other anime of this genre). The dialogue between the other characters is well-written though, enough so to keep things interesting across the 12-episode run. And when another \"alien\" girl appears near the end of the show, we get an interesting ending that is probably better than it could be otherwise for this genre, a nice surprise when most of the show's story was becoming generic to other anime aside from the writing.\n\tWhile Studio Shaft has shown their expertise with backgrounds and animation in \"Madoka Magica\" and \"Bakemonogatari,\" their effort is much smaller here. Detailed backgrounds still exist, but are grounded without much design or fantasy. Animation does shine well during a couple scenes though. Character designs are attractive enough, although girls have that strange oval smile only seen in anime and manga. But they are cute, which is all the show needs. And Erio in her rolled-up futon is absolutely adorable, and will no doubt win you over the second you see it. The music is good, in the show at least, but the opening and ending is oddly slow with weird pacing, but will grow on you overtime.\n\tSlice-of-life shows are a guilty pleasure that don't tend to lead to much enjoyment unless it is well made and if you are in the mood for it. But when they are made well, they stand out a little more. \"Psychoelectric Girl\" is a pleasant surprise, one of the better of the genre, and while it doesn't have much identity as either \"Bakemonogatari\" or \"Welcome to the NHK,\" it is worth looking into.\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.069999933242798,"scoreAni":3.5,"scoreVisual":3.5,"scoreAudio":3.0,"scoreAct":3.0,"scoreStory":3.0,"scoreFun":3.5,"scoreBias":2.0,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":false,"comedy":true,"erotic":true,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":true,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":true,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":true,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":300.0,"year":2011,"country":"Japan","studio":"Shaft","director":"Yukihiro Miyamoto, Akiyuki Shinbo"}