{"index":-1,"title":"Barefoot Gen","format":"Film","review":"\tIt's hard to get away from the nuclear bomb in Hiroshima at the end of World War II when it comes to Japanese anime. After all, even nearly a century later, it has affected millions of innocent families. Anime and manga have covered the event a few times. \"Grave of the Fireflies\" is the famous movie you've probably heard of. But before that was a movie called \"Barefoot Gen,\" based on a famous manga, loosely inspired by the real-life events the author had gone through. It's a much simpler film than other depictions of the event I've seen, and in a way, that makes it stronger. \"Grave of the Fireflies\" might just leave a viewer confused about how to think of the characters and their actions, but \"Barefoot Gen\" is all about the horror of the moment.\n\tThat is, the horror as seen through the eyes of a cartoon mascot. From the name alone, I don't think \"Barefoot Gen\" was ever destined to be as popular as Mickey Mouse, or even Lupin the Third or Doraemon. The image of a dirty barefoot vagrant child wandering the countryside of Japan, with other children looking up to his spirited attitude, leaves much to be desired. When the movie opens, Gen is a young boy with a younger brother and older sister, with their loving parents expecting a new child soon. Gen roughs around with his brother, looks forward for an excuse to skip school, sings dirty songs, etc. And even at this point, he doesn't wear shoes. The pair are a classic example of snarky rascals, and are clearly cartoon characters as they run and sing. The family happens to be living during World War II, and are starving as citizens try to survive on food rations managed by the government, but this doesn't seem to stop them. Even when Gen complains of hunger selfishly, he puts his family first, stealing (and then begging forgiveness for) a neighbor's fish when his mother collapses from malnutrition. A lovable scamp with a heart of gold.\n\tAnd then the bomb hits. I don't think I've seen a depiction that was so explicit in its imagery. For a few minutes, we see lighting change to black and bright white, and see closeups of citizens burning, their eyeballs melting from their eye-sockets, screaming over the blast of energy. Houses and temples blow away like a house of cards. Up to this point, \"Barefoot Gen\" might have been confused as a children's film, but the depiction of gore, especially knowing that it based on a real event, makes it shocking even for adults. I don't know how real we can assume this to be (Gen survives unscathed while a woman next to him is burnt and dies instantly), but the feeling of the event is palpable. \n\tSo Gen's happy-go-lucky days are over, helping his pregnant mother survive after they witness the rest of their family die under their collapsed burning house. Gen is immediately forced to help give birth, to try to find food and milk for them and the baby, and clean water uncontaminated by radiation. Walking through the streets, Gen sees piles of burnt and disfigured corpses, many of whom are still alive, begging for water and medical attention like zombies. Even in the horror, Gen tries to keep his chin up, certain that he can be the hero his mother needs, remaining strong like a stalk of wheat.\n\tThe story might not win any awards (the shift between family-level comedy and horror feels off throughout), but is still powerful. And a narrator comments on some of the facts about the events that occur, and the effects is has, given that the people at the time wouldn't find out for years. While perhaps a bit wooden, and almost propoganda-like in its political views, it also makes \"Barefoot Gen\" an impressive educational tool. For an older teenage audience, this is a great way to understand the Hiroshima bomb and the effects it had on Japan, with a main character and story that isn't too complex to deter anyone.\n\tVisually, the movie looks dated, but I was impressed with some animation sequences, especially during scenes from a plane's pespective, or during the blast. Some imagery is incredibly haunting, and remains powerful even today. The biggest concern I have is the voice acting: there is an old English dub, which isn't great, but the Japanese dub is outright horrible. Unfortunately, Gen's personality and youth make his voice sound like nails on a chalkboard, and this carries over to all of the children in the movie.\n\tCulturally, \"Barefoot Gen\" still has significant merit. Even if better films have since come along to depict the event, its simplicity makes understanding this moment in history easy. But there are only so many times the same story can be told... even if this is one of the lesser films from a technical perspective, it remains a powerful baseline for viewers to compare with.\n\tBut seriously, Gen... put some shoes on.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":2.5,"scoreAni":2.5,"scoreVisual":2.5,"scoreAudio":2.5,"scoreAct":1.0,"scoreStory":3.0,"scoreFun":2.5,"scoreBias":3.5,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":false,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":true,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":true,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":true,"sports":false,"ownBluray":true,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":85.0,"year":1983,"country":"Japan","studio":"Gen Production","director":"Mori Masaki"}