{"index":-1,"title":"The Rabbi's Cat","format":"Film","review":"\t\"The Rabbi's Cat\" is based of a graphic novel of the same name. And what a beautiful interpretation it is! Like a moving version of the graphic novel itself, it is a beautiful showcase of what hand-drawn art can look like in this day and age. Looking at posters or screenshots would give the impression that the designs are mishappen to the point of being difficult to watch, but the animators did a great job making the art feel grounded from any camera angle. Colors are muted slightly for the colors of the African desert, very fitting. Character designs are also unique and pleasing to the eye. The cat's dream sequences are somewhat different, helping vary the style. Overall, the visuals are the highlight. \n\tBut I get carried away. The story is also fascinating, if you can call it a story... it feels more like a series of events in the life of a local Rabbi. In a French colony in Africa, a Rabbi lives peacefully with his daughter and his cat. Miraculously, the cat starts to speak after eating the house parrot. The mischievous cat's ideas and views of the world make him quite the philosopher, much to the annoyance of the Rabbi and his own opinions. He gets used to it eventually, and the majority of the film follows his quest to help a Russian Jew escaping prosecution from his own Jerusalem. \n\tOverall, a unique take on religion in film. It tries not to be too offensive, but still openly speak different opinions. The Rabbi himself is friends with others despite their religions, an example that feels refreshing against other characters in the film that are much less accepting. Racism and religious themes aside, the story is nice but lacking. It feels like a string of little events that the rabbi and his cat happen to be a part of. It doesn't help that the film ends so abruptly, with a collection of artist sketches of the Rabbi's daughter and other characters. Even so, a mature film like this is fun to watch, especially for the cat's dialogue. \n\tSpeaking of which, all the dialogue is in its original French dub, which is ok, but reading the subtitles really takes away from looking at the art, especially with so much dialogue. I would have liked to see what crazy voice they could have done for the cat too. Otherwise, it feels appropriate, and music also fits with the setting. \n\tSomehow, \"The Rabbi's Cat\" didn't feel complete. It is smart, clever, funny, and beautiful, but the storyline should have been thought out more.  Even still, I think it can find a place with my collection, and still recommend you be accepting and give it a chance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.140000104904175,"scoreAni":3.0,"scoreVisual":3.5,"scoreAudio":3.0,"scoreAct":3.0,"scoreStory":3.0,"scoreFun":3.5,"scoreBias":3.0,"action":false,"adventure":true,"philosophy":true,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":false,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":true,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":80.0,"year":2011,"country":"France","studio":"Autochenille Production","director":"Joann Sfar, Antoine Delesvaux"}