{"index":-1,"title":"The Bob's Burgers Movie","format":"Film","review":"\tNormally, I wouldn't bother reviewing \"The Bob's Burgers Movie,\" based on the hit Fox cartoon \"Bob's Burgers.\" I probably wouldn't have bothered watching it. I'm sure it's fine, but TV-to-big-screen movies never seemed like a big deal to anyone outside the fanbase. The was just another \"The Simpsons Movie.\" Or more recently, another \"Teen Titans Go To The Movie\" or \"My Little Pony - The Movie.\" \n\tBut that's the thing: 2D animated films from the US are slowly making a comeback. Not from Disney or Dreamworks, who, in 2022, are desparately trying to train new artists after realizing the people that animate their theme park rides are dead. For better or for worse, America is getting back into the game with movies based on 2D TV shows, where an expensive CGI movie just wouldn't look right to fans who expect something familiar. \n\tIn the case of \"The Bob's Burgers Movie,\" it felt a little extra special. For one thing, it was meant to come out in 2020, but after the pandemic, it got pushed, and then wiped off the schedule entirely. Was the movie finished? Would it ever release? Fox was in the middle of being bought out by Walt Disney Entertainment, who was also preparing a new streaming service to compete with Netflix. Would Disney think the movie wasn't worth anything and just throw it away? Or would it be exclusive to Disney+ or Hulu? Finally, in 2022, the movie got its theatrical release, with surprisingly genuine marketing and fanfare. Another fun fact about the movie: it's technically the first 2D animated film Disney released in theaters since 2009's \"The Princess and the Frog\" and 2011's \"Winnie the Pooh.\" Not exactly the big return I wanted from Disney (via 20th Century Animation), but beggars can't be choosers. \n\tAnyway, \"The Bob's Burgers Movie\" (which was a very awkward title to say out loud at the ticket counter) is indeed best appreciated by long-time fans of the television series, but even just seeing a few episodes (like I have) would be enough to get the premise of the sitcom. And actually liking the series (like I have) would help with enjoying the movie. Compared to adult comedies like \"The Simpsons\" and \"Family Guy,\" \"Bob's Burgers\" was a breath of fresh air, starring innocent but goofy dorks in a family of a mom-and-pop burger shop. Even the creator's other shows (TV rules state if you make one successful cartoon comedy series, you get to make seven more) were charming and distinct enough for me to not be sick of them. If you're worried about whether the movie would be appropriate for kids, be assured that it's largely fine. And if you've never ever seen the series, going in blind to see the \"Movie\" will still bring a few chuckles. \n\tThe movie drops in with the Belcher family just before summer break. Bob, the father, is worried about getting a business-loan extension from the bank (which is quickly rejected, giving him just one week to pay off the debt or lose the restaurant). Linda, the mother, is doing her best to cheer up Bob and be the optimist. Their three kids each have their own issues as summer approaches: Tina is nervous about asking a boy to be her summer fling, Gene is second-guessing whether he truly discovered the best new instrument to launch his rock band to stardom, and Louise is teased for not being brave (related to her pink rabbit-ear hat). By the way, the kids are only 13, 11 and 9, respectively. With the loan deadline ticking down, things get worse when a giant sinkhole opens in front of the diner's entrance, further reducing Bob to a panic, and Louise leads her siblings on an adventure to save the business.\n\tBased on the trailers, you might expect the movie to feature robots, UFO's, gummy-bear aliens, an evil dancing sailor, a murder-mystery, horse chases, a rock concert, and zombies. Only a few of those things actually occur in the movie (the rest are just daydream fantasies), but I won't spoil which ones. The most surprising thing might be that \"The Bob's Burgers Movie\" is a musical, with four or five distinct songs, with surprsingly ellaborate choreography. Bouchard and Derriman, the creators, are no stranger to music numbers in their other shows, but it's fun to see here. Especially in the opening song, where even Bob skips and taps down the sidewalk in unison with his wife. These are legit songs, prime for a broadway adaptation! And of course, the characters (and songs) are voiced by the original show actors, in their typical deadpan delivery, with their deadpan chinless-muppet faces. I dare you not to smile.\n\tBeyond that, the adventure is servicable and exciting enough to keep your attention, especially since there are multiple plotlines to track (even though they really only boil down to two). There are some cameos from obscure characters from the show, including some I probably missed. There's a few moments of genuine growth and backstory for the leads that haven't been seen in the show. None of it is exceptional, but the movie succeeds in finding a plot and delivery to bring these characters to the big screen. I keep thinking about how good \"The Simpsons Movie\" was at doing that, and \"The Bob's Burgers Movie\" is just as successful, made with the same love and care. The issue there is that \"The Simpsons\" had a fanbase of hundreds of millions waiting a long time for that movie, and \"Bob's Burgers\" is comparably smaller in awareness, even if this movie improves that a bit. \n\tThe production values have also improved from the show, using 3D models for the town, and a higher framerate and expressiveness for character animation. It's still not great by theatrical standards, but it's colorful and clean. And again, the musical choreography is worth the ticket cost. The cast brings their A-game to the characters, each memorable because of their voices. \n\t\"The Bob's Burgers Movie\" is utterly charming in its goofy, energetic, and unique way. And if you enjoy it, you'll find the same thing every week on television. Maybe I just paid to see an extra long episode, but I agree with the critic quote they used in their trailers: \"it's definitely worth a trip to the theater.\"\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.2100000381469728,"scoreAni":3.0,"scoreVisual":2.5,"scoreAudio":3.5,"scoreAct":4.0,"scoreStory":2.5,"scoreFun":4.0,"scoreBias":3.0,"action":false,"adventure":true,"philosophy":false,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":true,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":false,"mystery":true,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":102.0,"year":2022,"country":"USA","studio":"Bento Box Entertainment","director":"Loren Bouchard, Bernard Derriman"}