{"index":-1,"title":"The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You","format":"TV","review":"\tDisclaimer: This review covers Season 1 (12 episodes) of \"The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You.\"\n\tI'm a fellow of diverse taste. While I usually seek out more... impactful... stories in anime, I also like taking a break every now and then with something simpler and fun. And with so many literal, state-what-we-are-directly-in-the-title anime and manga being released now, it's not hard to find something. I picked out \"The 100 Girlfriends Who Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Love You\" as a silly romantic-comedy filled with cute girls, which follows the common trope of a hapless male main character that finds himself with a harem of girls that throw themselves to his feet. From the title alone, I didn't expect much from it, but upon further research online... people seem to genuinely like this one, in part because of the sweetness of the romance, and because of how slapstick and self-aware the comedy can be. \n\tThe lucky main character is Rentaro Aijo, a romantic since childhood, who has to date been rejected by 100 girls in his young lifetime. He visits a shrine to pray for better fortune, and is surprised to see the literal God of Love - the God explains that while most people only have one true soulmate (as determined by the God himself, a divine explanation of \"fate\") and thus don't always meet them, there was an error in Rentaro's case. He wasn't given one soulmate... he was given 100. He'll know he meets one when a spark rushes through both him and the girl upon first sight. He's due to start meeting them in his first day of high school. By the way, anyone who meets their soulmate and doesn't follow through to begin a romance with them results in their tragic death. Of course, Rentaro meets two such girls on his first new day of school, and he instantly falls in love with them, and for the first time, they two fall in love back. But if he rejects one, the other would die! There's only one solution: harem. \n\tAmazingly, the girls agree to date Rentaro together (fully aware of how stupid the idea is, but they both can't help but love him, and reluctantly accept the situation). Rentaro manages to get by with both his new girlfriends... until he meets a third soulmate... then a fourth. The first season only has five girls, but from the title, Rentaro may well be destined to meet all 100 before long. And every time, when he feels that spark, he's compelled to confess his love to them, and have them join his growing love club. Will he be able to juggle everyone to feel as loved as if they were his only one? Rentaro vows to all of them that he will, but time will tell I suppose. \n\tIgnoring the ridiculousness of the plot for a moment - there's potential here for good character drama for when one girl feels left out, or dealing with the complexities of 100 fully-realized human beings (most people struggle to be present to help with just one). But no, this is not remotely a drama, it's a comedy first and foremost. Rentaro is surprisingly adept to having all his girls feel included throughout the first season. And each girl is mostly one-dimensional, defined by a unique hair colour and a one-sentence-definable personality quirk. One's a sweet motherly-type. Another is a tsundre. One is shy and cannot speak without quoting from her favourite books of literature. I guess it's hard to write a realistic character, let alone 100 distinct ones, and also, this is historically par for the course for anime. It also makes character-driven jokes easier to write.\n\tShows like this usually hinge on the qualities of the male character. Is he a jerk? A pervert? A solemn, distant type? Or is he actually kind and caring, always earnest to those around him? Thankfully, it's the latter. Rintaro is largely upfront and honest to all of his girls, even rejecting the thought that he could secretly date each girl behind their back, and goes out of his way to help every one of his girlfriends, to the extent that it's practically heroic. His ideas don't always work at first, but he finds a solution eventually. \"100 Girlfriends\" isn't mean-spirited or particularly gross, just a sweet comedy of teenage romance. There's not even that much fan-servce - wait, no, there is as the episodes continue. It is an anime, after all, so of course there's at least a pool-day episode. But at least that's not the show's selling point: this is a show for those who want to see love, not lust. \n\tWarm and fuzzy romance aside, the show tries to be funny, breaking the fourth wall with the voice of a narrator, screaming reactions to silly responses, getting into silly situations, and so on. It tries a little harder to be funny than most romantic comedies, and this is most clear in the first couple of episodes, but this wears off over time. It is funny, but more cute than funny. The English dub helps with the humour, but it's a bit suspect, changing the jokes with modern slang, sometimes being drastically different. And somehow, it doesn't fit the show as nicely as the Japanese dub - even as an English dub regular, I was switching back frequently to the Japanese voices to compare. There's some novelty to hear the English script, but I'd recommend watching the Japanese version first and trying the English version if watching a second time. \n\tI've never heard of the studio Bibury Animation, but they provided the work for \"100 Girlfriends.\" There's not too much to speak of here. By modern standards, the show looks good thanks to a colourful palette, but is simply just fine. And for this show, I'd expect nothing more. For the moments that matter (like when characters share a kiss, for example), the shots look good. Music is fine, and both the opening and ending themes fit nicely, getting you into the mood for the zanny episode, and winding you down when it ends. \n\t\"100 Girlfriends\" isn't particularly great, but for its genre, it's pretty good, and from the title and premise, it could have been SO much worse. It gives me vibes similar to \"Baka and Test,\" another personal favourite, and it's nice to know there's a modern rom-com I can cozy up with. \n\t\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":3.0,"scoreAni":2.5,"scoreVisual":3.0,"scoreAudio":3.0,"scoreAct":3.0,"scoreStory":2.5,"scoreFun":4.0,"scoreBias":3.0,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":false,"comedy":true,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":true,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":false,"drama":false,"mystery":false,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":true,"ownDVD":false,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":300.0,"year":2023,"country":"Japan","studio":"Bibury Animation Studios","director":"Hikaru Sato"}