{"index":-1,"title":"Gankutsuou - The Count of Monte Cristo","format":"TV","review":"\tWhen I first started watching anime seriously, Studio Gonzo had a lot to do with the respect I have for Japan's largest export. They have a bit of a sketchy history regarding quality anime, producing shows ranging from the best and most ambitious to some of the worst. Generally, the period from 2003 to 2007 was when some of their best output was produced, but following financial issues in 2009, the group significantly reduced their output and the shows that came since where largely forgettable.\n\tAmong those released in their heyday, there were three series that happened to each be (loosely) based on classic stories: one based on \"Seven Samurai\" (also known in the American remake \"The Magnificant Seven\"), one based on \"The Count of Monte Cristo,\" and one based on the works of Shakespeare, namely focusing on \"Romeo and Juliet.\" These were imaginative and took creative liberties while still paying respect to the source material. It's rare to see anime based on classic stories (and more common to see new self-insert fantasy stories starring  high school students), so these are all refreshing and worth a watch.\n\tAs for \"The Count of Monte Cristo,\" the adaption is set in the year 5053, and features a magical alien that takes over the title character to help him craft his revenge in a cross-planetary quest. The alient is given a difficult-to-pronounce name: \"Gankutsuou.\" What could possibly go wrong?\n\tRight away, the plot of \"Gankutsuou - The Count of Monte Cristo\" sounds like the orignal story is being wrecked with sci-fi trappings in a way only anime would attempt. But instead, the story is tightly crafted with great attention to detail. The perspective follows Albert, a young aristocrat enjoying the high life with his friends, when by chance he meets \"The Count,\" a enigmatic figure that Albert can't stop thinking about. The audience can guess where the story goes (hint: Albert is the child of The Count's past lover), but it isn't clear exactly how it gets there; hence the enjoyment of seeing The Count's plan come to fruition, slowly shifting from a charming model of society to a madman out of control. The story pays more attention to filling the empty gaps with other memorable characters, including adults that had a hand with the Count's tragic past and a younger generation of characters that are related to those involved. They too have their own lives, secret loves and intentions, caring for some and planning to backstab others for their own gain. It forms a complex web of connections that unravels in a series of events, all according to the plan of the Count standing off to the side. Albert's decisions do often come across as frustratingly junvenile too often, usually to the risk of life to those he loves, but even he grows as a person by the end, something few other shows can claim of their main characters. Right up to the ending, it feels like a satisfying epic of drama, love, and tragedy. \n\tAnd to warn you, there are multiple instances of alternative sexual perference, including gay and cross-dressing characters. While parts of it are played as a joke, I feel the majority of it is handled subtly and with an important role in the story. It that way, this show was ahead of its time in its portrayal, and a good example for other artists to strive for.\n\tBut the main draw of \"Gankutsuou\" is not the story. Upon seeing a single screenshot, one cannot help but watch the story play out in animation. The futuristic fantasy world is beautifully realized, throwing away any attempt to feel grounded in order to portray beauty in the environments and characters. The clothing and har of the characters is painted using detailed textures which DO NOT MOVE when the character does, giving a strange effect that makes it feel like you are watching a painting come to life. Or a wallpaper. Either way, the effect is captivating and unique to this day. The animation itself is less impressive than the visual design. When viewed with a critical eye, the movement of the characters doesn't look much better than other shows from the time, characters don't move too often to begin with, and the occasional use of 3D animation for other elements does not mesh well with the 2D characters. There are still some brief moments of unique florishes in the animation, I think largely due to director Mahiro Maeda, but barely enough to meet the incredible visuals.\n\tThe music is flawless. \"Gankutsuou\" makes heavy use of classical music by well-known European composers of old, but I cannot imagine a show better suited for it. And the original music is pretty fantastic to boot, including a solemn ballad opening and rock-anthem ending, composed and sung by Jean-Jacques Burnel. The English and Japanese dubs are most generally great, and although some characters don't come across as cool as they ought to, the others more than make up for it. The Japanese dub tries to make good use of French when introducing and recapping episodes, further giving an international feel to the entire production.\n\tSo yes, there are slight problems everywhere, but the bold ambition of the production as a whole is visionary. It is a shame the show hasn't received more attention than it did, and a shame a gold-coated Bluray case does not exist for me to put on my shelf, next to my book collection. If you seek culture in your anime, \"Gankutsuou - The Count of Monte Cristo\" is the cloest I've seen to it being a mature AND entertaining piece of art.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":4.289999961853027,"scoreAni":3.0,"scoreVisual":4.5,"scoreAudio":5.0,"scoreAct":4.0,"scoreStory":4.5,"scoreFun":4.0,"scoreBias":5.0,"action":false,"adventure":false,"philosophy":false,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":true,"experimental":true,"fantasy":true,"scifi":true,"drama":true,"mystery":true,"thriller":true,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":600.0,"year":2004,"country":"Japan","studio":"Gonzo","director":"Mahiro Maeda"}