{"index":-1,"title":"Parasite Dolls","format":"OVA","review":"\tThere was a time in the anime industry where a whole bunch of sci-fi anime set in a near-futuristic city featuring humanoid robots and cops were made. This likely boosted after the success of \"Ghost in the Shell,\" but don't quote me on that. Anyway, many of these are old and somewhat generic, but also quite good in their own way, if you're a fan of the genre. That's where \"Parasite Dolls\" neatly fits.\n\tIn a futuristic city that might as well be called Neo-Tokyo, humanoid robots are commonplace as assistants and servants for humans. However, some of these robots, called \"Boomers,\" have been illegally modified to be sex dolls, used by the seedier side of the city. A special branch of the police force investigates the Boomers when some start to malfunction, disappear, or die. \n\tThe movie is separated into three acts (this was originally an OVA where each part was released separately, the American release edits them as one full-length film), each of which is mostly standalone. \n\tThe stories are of the gritty film-noir type, and if you're a fan of detective or cop television you'll be pleased. The two cops and the associates they work with are somewhat stereotypical, but in the way you'd want, and each have enough personality and back-story to keep them interesting. The setting is dark, filled with violence, blood, and sex everywhere, although the three acts don't always feel as connected as they should, and some of these mature visuals don't have any substance to justify it being there. The writing is good enough to make you care about the main characters when necessary. \n\tI guess the biggest problem is that the film just feels too generic and forgettable. It's not bad at all, and if you like sci-fi crime-drama, you'll enjoy this plenty. But there isn't anything that makes it stand out, not the characters or story or setting. There have been several other films and shows before and since. It's like comparing the dozens of criminal-investigation shows on primetime American television every night: they're all fine, but frankly they're all very similar, and I become frustrated in the excess of one genre such that I can't tell if one is better than the rest. It doesn't help that this film was released in 2003, and looks like it was made ten years earlier. The visuals do look very dated, and the English dub is as bad as many dubs were the previous decade. I'd swear this was made in 1990 if it wasn't for the label.\n\tCuriously, online sources say \"Parasite Dolls\" is set in the same universe as the \"Bubblegum Crisis\" anime franchise, but is still standalone and requires no knowledge of that property. I have no knowledge of that series, so I can't say if it would improve my opinion or not.\n\tYou already know if you'd enjoy \"Parasite Dolls\" from the description on the box. I can just tell you it isn't going to blow your mind, but is a good movie if you can get it on the cheap.\n\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":2.359999895095825,"scoreAni":2.0,"scoreVisual":2.0,"scoreAudio":2.0,"scoreAct":1.5,"scoreStory":4.0,"scoreFun":3.0,"scoreBias":2.0,"action":true,"adventure":false,"philosophy":true,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":true,"drama":true,"mystery":true,"thriller":false,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":90.0,"year":2003,"country":"Japan","studio":"Anime International Company","director":"Yoshinaga Naoyuki, Nakazawa Kazuto"}