{"index":-1,"title":"Ghost in the Shell - Stand Alone Complex","format":"TV","review":"\tDisclaimer: this review includes \"Ghost in the Shell - Stand Alone Complex\" season 1 and season 2 (titled \"2nd Gig\").\n\t\"Ghost in the Shell\" is one of the most well-known anime films and franchises, a true classic in the sci-fi genre. However, the director of those films, Mamuro Oshii, took some creative liberties with the plot to squeeze themes common to his work. The original manga was better adapted in the television series \"Stand Alone Complex,\" and in many ways, the show is actually better than the movie that made the franchise popular. At the very least, it is more accessible to watch, and if you know someone who enjoys watching crime procedurals on primetime American television, this is an easy recommendation.\n\tLike the films, the series follows Mokoto (the Major) , a member of Section 9, a secret police agency. The entire group fights in a futuristic world where cyber-bodies are commonplace, where some people actually have parts replaced with robotic organs. Other than the high-tech, the world and the characters are real, and it helps in the story's favor. Season 1 has one over-arching villain known as the laughing man, an individual trying to reveal the secrets corporations try to hide. The second season focuses on the Individual Eleven, a group of members that committed suicide in front of the world for unknown reasons, where only one member survived. The show also has some \"filler\" episodes with stand-alone plots, but these also feel rewarding in character development. \n\tOne of the biggest strengths of the show is the characters. Section 9 isn't just about the Major, but all the other members as well. The dialogue can be both thought-provoking and hilarious, leading to some moments much funnier than the movies ever were. Seriously, some of Batou's moments are the funniest I remember in any anime.  That's not even including the adorable Tachikoma, spider-like AI robots that are like curious ten year old geniuses with machine guns. The antagonists are also intriguing, with plans and motivations to change the world in ways you've never thought about. The intrigue of these terrorists is something I've only seen in \"Eden of the East,\" also made by the same director. While season 2 is a little tighter in story, the themes and ending episodes in season 1 were more impactful. The villains in Season 2 are certainly interesting, but their motives aren't as meaningful, causing the end of the series to feel a little bit of a letdown. Season 1 on the other hand ends very well, because of the themes and how they use J. D. Salinger's \"Catcher in the Rye\" directly. Indeed, the shows feel more academic than most, and well-read individuals can take a lot from them. \n\tStory-wise, the biggest flaw is shared with all secret agent thrillers: it can be confusing. Characters will throw a lot of different information at you about the task at hand and the histories of the characters they are facing. It does better than most shows, since you always have a general idea of the gravity of the events and the stories are generally well written, but sometimes I did get lost in exactly what they were trying to do at specific times. If you pay close attention to every episode, this may not happen to you, but it's not easy paying attention to 52 episodes, no matter how interesting they are.   \n\t\"Ghost in the Shell\" is one of the most respected anime franchises, and Production I.G. is one the most respected anime studios. It makes sense that production values are great. Visuals are clean, and animation is fluid yet grounded (both are slightly dated when watching over a decade after their release, but not enough to ruin the experience). The show has a techno-soundtrack worth buying in the background. The opening and ending themes are also especially enjoyable. The Major's wardrobe is a little revealing around the thighs in the first season, but that is fixed by the second season. However, on the DVDs I have from Bandai Entertainment, there is a little bit of aliasing when characters move from a distance, such as walking or running in the distance. You might not notice it, but if you do, it can be very distracting, and you'll beg for a Bluray (this was eventually released in North America in 2017, but with its own technical issues that left some fans annoyed).\n\tOverall, it is very easy to recommend \"Ghost in the Shell: Stand Alone Complex.\" Not many anime can maintain such a solid level of quality for so many episodes, and not many exist to satisfy fans of the sci-fi/police genre. Given the bonus features you can get on the current release, and the quality of the show itself, its one of the best available anime you can get from the period.\n\t\n\n\n\n\n","scoreTotal":4.139999866485596,"scoreAni":3.5,"scoreVisual":3.5,"scoreAudio":4.5,"scoreAct":4.0,"scoreStory":4.5,"scoreFun":4.0,"scoreBias":5.0,"action":true,"adventure":false,"philosophy":true,"comedy":false,"erotic":false,"horror":false,"family":false,"romance":false,"experimental":false,"fantasy":false,"scifi":true,"drama":false,"mystery":true,"thriller":true,"nonfiction":false,"sports":false,"ownBluray":false,"ownDVD":true,"ownCombo":false,"pastBluray":false,"pastDVD":false,"pastCombo":false,"runtime":1300.0,"year":2002,"country":"Japan","studio":"Production I.G.","director":"Kenji Kamiyama"}